---
layout: post
title: "Books"
excerpt: "Getting started"
date:   2016-3-25 10:00:00
header-img: "img/post-bg-02.jpg"
---

## Level 1 - Learning to read real good 

At this point, you have no serious background nor interest in literature.  High school has likely killed all of any interest in reading with boring selections and busywork.
So we have to fix this:

The first choice is the most important, as if it's a failure, you are lost forever:

As you're likely young and impressionable I would recommend something broad in scope:
Choose between Oscar Wilde's **Picture of Dorian Gray** *(250 pages)* and Voltaire's **Candide** *(150 pages)*.  Both display great wit, use of language, and creative plots.  Consequently, both were widely banned at various points.  

## Level 2 - Trumping length to make literature great again

As you've now read something considered "literature" and realized that the l-word is a bit exaggerated, you're ready for something more intimidating.

* Les Miserables by Hugo: my personal favorite at *1000+ pages* , but arguably one of the best novels out there.
+ Don Quixote by Cervantes: you could read the very first and rather silly novel(s), which is in 2 parts of *400 pages* each
+ The Count of Monte Cristo by Dumas, an adventure novel of revenge and mercy, wealth and poverty, love and betrayals, and explosions.  

## Level 3 - Thinking about thinking

All of the above have been relatively "fun" experiences in the sense that the plots were straighforward and action-packed.  Tolstoy's philosophy was that literature (and art as a whole) should have a greater point. While anyone with enough time can surmount Level 2, only the brave of heart and resolute of mind will survive hundreds of pages of tangential philosophy.

Here are your options (in ascending order of length):

1. Tale of Two Cities by Dickens
2. Brideshead Revisited by Waugh
3. Brothers Karamazov by Dostoevsky
4. Anna Karenina by Tolstoy
5. Moby Dick by Melville 

## Level 4 - Transcendence 

* In Pursuit of Lost Time
+ Encyclopaedia Britannica
+ Having read this entire blog post
